# Juan Manuel Ramallo

Hey all!

I learned about Rails while doing my third year of university (late 2015) and I can firmly say that never stopped using it since then. After so many theoric classes it was good to finally be able to build stuff, real systems, and apps that could impact people around me. Got my first Rails job shortly after (early 2017) not only because I had built two fully functional Rails apps by then but also because the people from the company that hired me, knew me by a _[talk I gave at a local meetup about using postcss with Rails](https://github.com/laplatarb/meetup-nov-2016/blob/master/postcss.md)_. For the past three years, I've had the pleasure to help computer engineering students build their first web applications with Rails, deal with database queries, understand the basics of HTTP, and other things a Rails app involves, by serving as an ad honorem teacher assistant in the very same course I learned about Rails, Software Engineer Course for 3rd-year students.

During the past few years, I've built a few Rails apps to help me solve specific things.

- _[Podcastfeeder](https://github.com/juanmanuelramallo/podcast_feeder)_ is a podcast management app that fulfills Spotify's podcast specification; it allows the user to create podcasts, episodes and upload audio. It uses a custom ActiveStorage analyzer object to determine the duration of the audio leveraging the ffprobe utility from ffmpeg. The RSS feed is also generated by podcastfeeder and here's the [landing page for a podcast I co-created in Spanish](https://prograterapia.1ma.dev/)

- _[Applogger](https://github.com/juanmanuelramallo/applogger)_ is the companion app for Podcastfeeder to enable stats from the audience. Applogger is a syslog drainer that stores the logs, transforms them, and allows the user to visualize the transformed data via charts and tables. To have geographical data, applogger uses a free IP database from Maxmind.

- _[Testbox](https://github.com/juanmanuelramallo/testbox)_ is an ActionMailbox simple use case to have a place where to send non-production emails. The goal was to experiment with the inbound feature from ActionMailbox and try out turbo frames to have smoother navigation. As part of the development of this app, I sent [a PR to fix a conductor controller from ActionMailbox](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/44008).

- _[todo_cli_app](https://github.com/juanmanuelramallo/todo)_ is a CLI app to write daily notes about work to do and questions to answer. It was built mostly from frustration with how slow web-based To-Do apps were at the time. Even though I do not use this app daily these days it was really fun building it.

There may be other apps around but these are some of the most significant I've built. Most of them are deployed in a Digital Ocean droplet under a Dokku instance.

Among other open-source work, I _[helped Joel Hawksley and the team behind ViewComponents port over the preview functionality from ActionMailer to ViewComponents](https://github.com/github/view_component/graphs/contributors)_ and other minor things.

This cover letter only included non-paid work, either open-source work or personal side projects. I'm open to talking personally about the paid work I've done for customers.

Thank you for your time!

Best,
Juanma.
